1.
tw aggelw tys 'en 'Ephesw ekklysias graphon tade legei 'o krtwn    tous 'epta asteras 'en ty   dezia     autou 'o peripatwn 'en mesw twn 'epta luxniwn twn xruswn
to angel that in Ephesus church     write   this word  one holding the  seven star    in  the right-hand his   One walks    in  among the seven lamps  of  gold

2.
oida ta 'erga sou    kai ton kopon kai tyn 'upomonyn    sou    kai 'oti ou duny   bastasai kakous kai 'epeirasas tous legontas 'eautous 'apostolous kai ouk eisin    kai eures autous      pseudeis
Know the deeds yours and the toil  and the perseverance yours and  that no cannot endure   evil   and testing    the  call    themselves  apostles  and not they-are and found theirselves false

3.
kai 'ypmoyny     exeis kai ebastasas dia to 'onoma mou  kai ou kekopiakes
and perseverance have  and endurance for the name  Mine and not weariness

4.
alla exw    kata   sou 'oti tyn agapyn sou tyn prwtyn 'aphykes
but having against you that the love  yours the first  forgiven

5.
mnymoneue oun pothen peptwkas kai metanoyson kai ta prwta 'erga poiyson ei de my 'erxomai soi kai kinysw tyn luxnian sou ek  tou topou autys 'ean my metanoysys
remember where from  fallen  and  repent     and to first deeds do      or else  coming   you and removing the lamp your out the place self  unless you repent

6.
alla touto exeis 'oti miseis ta 'erga twn Nikolaitwn 'a      kagw misw
yet  this  have  that hate  the deeds the Nikolaiton which I-also hate

7.
'o exwn ous akousatw ti to pneuma legeu tais ekklysiais tw nikwntu dwsw autw phagein ek tou Sulou tys zwys 'o estin 'en tw paradeisw tou theou
who has ear hearing this the spirit speaks to churches who overcomes grant I eat   with the tree  of  life who is   in the paradise  of  God

8.
kai tw aggelw tys en Smyrny ekklysias graphon tade legei 'o prwtos kai the esxatos 'os egeneto nekros kai 'ezysen
and to angel  of  in Smyrna church    write   this word  of first  and the last    and began   dead   and  lives

9.
oida sou  tyn thlipsin    kai tyn ptwxeian 'alla plousios ei  kai tyn blasphymian ek twn legontwn 'Ioudaious einai esutous kai ouk eisin alla sunagwgy  tou Satana
know your the tribulation and the poverty   yet  rich     are and the blasphemy   of the words     Jewish    are   they    and not are   yet  synagogue of  Satan

10.
myden phobou 'a melleis pasxein idou  mellei ballein 'o diabolos ez 'umwn eis phulakyn 'ina peirasthyte kai 'ezete thlipsin   ymerwn deka ginou pistos    'axri thanatou kai dwsw sou ton stephanon tis zwys
don't look   what about suffer  behold about cast   the devil   some you into prison    so  testing     and having tribulation days  ten  beings faithful until death    and give you the crowns    of life


11.
'o 'exwn ous skousatw ti   to  pneuma legei tais ekklysiais 'o   nikwn 
he has   ear hear     what the pneuma says  to   ecclesias  whom overcomes 

ou my 'adikythy 'ek tou thanatou tou deuterou
won't  hurt     with of death    of  second

12.
kai tw aggelw tys en Pergamw ekklysias grapson tade legei 'o 'exwn tyn  'romphaian tyn  distomon  tyn 'ozeian
and to angel  of  in Pergamo ecclisias write   this word  whom has with  sword     with two-edges with sharpness

13.
oida pou katoikeis 'opou      'o thronos tou Satana kai krateis to 'onoma mou kai ouk yrnysw tyn pistin mou
know where dwelling you-where the throne the satan  and holdfast the name my  and not deny  the  faith  mine

kai 'en tais 'ymerais 'Antipas 'o martus mou 'o   pistos  mou 'os 'apektanthy  par' 'umin 'opou 'o Satanas katoikei
and in  this   days   Antipas who martyred my who faithful my who  were-killed among you  where  the satan dwells

14.
'all  'exw   kata    sou  'oliga  'oti   'exeis 'ekei kratountas tyn  didxyn   Balaam
but   i-have against you things  because  have  there followers  with teaching Balaam 
'os edidasken tw Balak balein skandalon 'enwpion twn  uiwn  'Israyl  phagein  eidwlothuta    kai porneusai
who teaching  to Balak put    block     before   the sons  of-Israel to-eat  idol-sacrifices and pornography