# Manthra

There are two hard problems in software engineering:
	automatically synchronized and invalidated caching storage,
	naming things,
	and off-by-1 errors.
M.Currier (reprise of Phil Karlton, Leon Bambrick)


The first step towards wisdom is to call things by their proper name.
	Confucius


In order to be great it isn't enough to be right - you must be great.
     M.L'Engle


There are three components to success: simplify, simplify, simplify


The first gulp from the glass of natural sciences will make you an Atheist, but at the bottom of the glass, God is waiting for you.
    Werner Heisenberg


Ex falso sequitur quodlibet.


Upon review of the past year:
 I desire to confess that my unfaithfulness has been exceedingly great,
 my sins still greater,
 God's mercies greater than both.
 My shortcomings and mis-doings, 
 my unbelief and want of love would sink me into the lowest hell,
 was not Jesus my righteousness and my redeemer.
    Augustus Toplady


The isn't much traffic on the extra mile
	H.Barber


I profess to be one of those who, by profiting, write, and by writing profit.
	Jean Calvin


A design center should be equal parts monastery, pub, and sweatshop.


Some have at first for wits, then poets passed, 
Turn’d critics next, and proved plain fools at last.


A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still


Contradiction is not a sign of falsity, nor the lack of contradiction a sign of truth.
	Blaise Pascal


The world is full of intellectual derelicts
	C.Coolidge


I don't skate to where the puck is, I skate to where the puck is going to be.
	W.Gretsky


Who are the people most opposed to escapism?  Jailors!
	C.S. Lewis


When two partners always agree, one of them is not necessary.


There is a principle which:
	is a bar against all information
	is a proof against all argument
	cannot fail to keep man in everlasting ignorance
	...condemnation before investigation
    Edmund Spencer


Evidence for the conspiracy is evidence for the conspiracy.
Evidence against the conspiracy is evidence for the conspiracy.
	Stephen Novella


In necessariis unitas,
In dubiis libertas,
in omnibus caritas.
	RUPERTUS MELDENIUS


Searching something unsorted is inefficient,
Sorting something never searched is a waste of time


I am a revolutionary, so my son can be a farmer, so his son can be a poet.
	John Adams


Somewhere a True Believer is training to kill you.
He is training with minimal food or water, in austere conditions, day and night.
The only thing clean on him is his weapon.
He doesn't worry about what workout to do - his ruck weighs what it weighs, his run ends when the enemy stops chasing him.
This True Believer is not concerned about 'how hard it is,' he either wins or dies.
He doesn't go home at 17:00, he is home.
He knows only The Cause.
	Doc


The Spartans do not ask how many the enemies are but where they are.
	Agis II


If they come for the innocent without stepping over your body, cursed be your religion and your life.
	Dorothy Day


Si vis pacem, para bellum.
	Plato via Publius Flavius


Those people who will not be governed by God will be ruled by tyrants.
	William Penn


It is the soldier, not the reporter, who has given us Freedom of Press.
It is the soldier, not the poet, who has given us Freedom of Speech.
It is the soldier, not the campus organizer, who has given us the Freedom to Demonstrate.
It is the soldier, who salutes the flag, who serves beneath the flag, and whose coffin is draped by the flag that allows the protester to burn the flag.
	Father Dennis O'Brien; Chaplain, USN


In the beginning of a change, the patriot is a scarce man, brave, hated, and scorned.
When his cause succeeds however, the timid join him, for then it costs nothing to be a patriot.
	Mark Twain


A superior operator uses his superior judgement to keep himself out of situations that would require his superior skills.


A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly.  Specialization is for insects.
	Robert A. Heinlein


When the government's boot is on your throat, whether it is a left boot or a right boot is of no consequence.
	Gary Lloyd


The difference between a warrior and an ordinary man is a warrior sees everything as a challenge and an ordinary man sees it as a blessing or curse.
	Don Juan


We do not rise to the occassion, we fall to the level of our training.


We are what we repeatedly do.  Excellence, then, is not an act but a habit.
	Aristotle


When you go home tell them of us and say, 'for their tomorrow we gave our today'.
	John Maxwell Edmonds


The philosophy of the classroom today, will be the philosophy of the government tomorrow.
	Abraham Lincoln


If there must be trouble, let it be in my day that my children may have peace.
	Thomas Paine


We must, indeed, all hang together or, most assuredly, we shall all hang separately.
	Ben Franklin


Let us speak courteously, deal fairly, and keep ourselves armed and ready.
	Theodore Roosevelt


Food for the body is not enough.  There must be food for the soul.
	Dorothy Day


Mon centre cède, ma droite recule, situation excellente, j'attaque.
	Ferdinand Foch


Among the many misdeeds of the British rule in India, history will look upon the Act depriving a whole nation of arms, as the blackest.
	Mahatma Gandhi


Even if you are a minority of one, the truth is the truth.
	Mahatma Gandhi


The weak can never forgive.  Forgiveness is an attribute of the strong.
	Mahatma Gandhi


The United States has sent many of its fine young men and women into great peril to fight for freedom beyond our borders.
The only amount of land we have ever asked for is enough to bury those that did not return.
	Colin Powell


Teach your children the art of war, so that they may teach their children math and science, and their children can study art and literature.
	John Adams, 2nd President of the United States


Those who sacrifice essential liberty for temporary safety are not deserving of either liberty or safety.
	Ben Franklin


Where the spirit does not work with the hand there is no art
	Leonardo da Vinci


Nothing in Scripture depicts the Christian life as divided into sacred and secular parts
	Dan Miller


If your attack is going too well, you're probably walking into an ambush.
	Infantry Journal


Divide et Impera
Divide ut Regnes
	a Roman saying via Napoleon


There are four boxes to be used in the defense of liberty: soap, ballot, jury and ammo.  Please use in that order.
	Larry McDonald


The democracy will cease to exist when you take away from those who are willing to work and give to those who would not.
	Thomas Jefferson


The strongest reason for the people to retain the right to keep and bear arms is, as a last resort, to protect themselves against tyranny in government.
	Thomas Jefferson


Drills teach principles.  They teach ideas.  They are the map, not the territory.
	MM


Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming --WOW-- What a ride!
	Burke


The beauty of the Second Amendment is that it will not be needed until they try to take it.
	Thomas Jefferson


Gun Control: the theory that a woman found dead in an alley, raped, and strangled with her own pantyhose, is somehow morally superior to a woman explaining to police how her attacker got that fatal bullet wound.
	unknown


People sleep peacefully in their beds at night only because rough men stand ready to do violence on their behalf.
	George Orwell


If you come expecting a fair fight, you are unprepared.


To compel a man to furnish contributions of money for the propagation of opinions which he disbelieves and abhors, is sinful and tyrannical.
	Thomas Jefferson


I am thus far a Quaker, that I would gladly argue with all the world to lay aside the use of arms and settle matters by negotiation, but unless the whole will, the matter ends, and I take up my musket and thank Heaven He has put it in my power.
	Writings of Thomas Paine 56 (M. Conway ed. 1894)


I am concerned for the security of our great nation, not so much because of any threat from without, but because of the insidious forces working from within.
	General Douglas MacArthur


Those who expect to reap the blessings of freedom must, like men, undergo the fatigue of supporting it.
	Thomas Paine


Our freedom is not being destroyed by terrorists, but by ignorance, apathy and complacency.  Our government schools are to blame...Our dumbing down is not accidental but a very well organized plan.
	Kelly McGinley


If God does not punish America, He should apologize to Sodom & Gommorrah.
	various, Billy Graham


Democracy is two wolves and a lamb discussing what's for dinner.
Liberty is a well armed lamb willing to contest the majority decision.
	Benjamin Franklin 1755


Every normal man must be tempted at times to spit on his hands, hoist the black flag, and begin to slit throats.
	H.L. Mencken


A man with a toothache cannot be in love.
	Shakespeare


Ever tried.  Ever failed.  No matter.  Try again.  Fail again.  Fail better.
  Samuel Beckett


After each of our wars, there has always been a great hue and cry to the effect that...by removing the fire department, we will remove fires.
	George S. Patton


I do not say that there will be no more wars; I devoutly hope that there will not, but I do say that the chances of avoiding future wars will be greatly enhanced if we are ready.
	George S. Patton


A veteran - whether active duty, retired, national guard, or reserve - is someone who, at one point in his or her life, wrote a blank check made payable to The 'United States of America', for an amount of 'up to and including his life.'
	Author Unknown


When we get piled upon one another in large cities, as in Europe, we shall become as corrupt as Europe.
	Thomas Jefferson


It is incumbent on every generation to pay its own debts as it goes.  A principle which if acted on would save one-half the wars of the world.
	Thomas Jefferson


I predict future happiness for Americans if they can prevent the government from wasting the labors of the people under the pretense of taking care of them.
	Thomas Jefferson


My reading of history convinces me that most bad government results from too much government.
	Thomas Jefferson


I would never invade the United States.  There would be a gun behind every blade of grass.
	Isoroku Yamamoto


Sell not virtue to purchase wealth, nor Liberty to purchase power.
	 Benjamin Franklin


If guns kill people, then:
	pencils miss spel words,
	cars make people drive drunk,
	and spoons made Rosie O'Donnell fat.
GOOA


My tone is a direct reflection of your attitude.


An armed man is a citizen.  An unarmed man is a subject.


A gun in the hand is better than a cop on the phone.


Gun control is not about guns; it's about control.


If guns cause crime, then cameras cause pornography.


Free men do not have to ask permission to bear arms.


If you don't know your rights you don't have any.


The second amendment is in place in case they ignore the others.


Guns only have two enemies: rust and liberals.


Know guns, know peace and safety.  No guns, no peace nor safety.


Peace through superior firepower.


Assault is a type of behavior, not a type of hardware.


Criminals love gun control it makes their jobs easier and safer.


The American Revolution wasn't about tea and taxes.  It was about taking guns!


The pen is mightier than the sword, unless you are in a swordfight!


Those who live by the sword have a fighting chance.


My gun?  I'd rather have it and not need it than need it and not have it.


Firearm safety is a matter for education, not legislation.


The day they want my guns they'll have to bring theirs.


An armed society is a polite society.


Manners are good when one may have to back up his acts with his life.


How can you praise freedom, and condemn that which gains and preserves it?


My wife and my gun: 'til death do us part.


When they come for your guns, give them the ammo first!


When seconds count, the cops are just minutes away...


Writing is not necessarily something to be ashamed of, but do it in private and wash your hands when you're done.
	Robert Heinlein


A good speech should be like a woman's skirt; long enough to cover the subject and short enough to create interest.
	Winston Churchill


I must not fear.  Fear is the mind-killer.  Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration.  I will face my fear.  I will permit it to pass over me and through me.  And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path.  Where the fear has gone there will be nothing.  Only I will remain.
	Bene Gesserit 'Litany Against Fear,'


Night gathers, and now my watch begins.  It shall not end until my death.  I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children.  I shall wear no crowns and win no glory.  I shall live and die at my post.  I am the sword in the darkness.  I am the watcher on the walls.  I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men.  I pledge my life and honor to the Night's Watch, for this night and all the nights to come.
	George R.R. Martin, Game of Thrones, oath of the night's watch


The crystal is the heart of the blade.
The heart is the crystal of the Jedi.
The Jedi is the crystal of the Force.
The Force is the blade of the heart.


Absorb what is useful, discard what is useless, and add what is uniquely your own.
	Bruce Lee


ὦ ξεῖν', ἀγγέλλειν Λακεδαιμονίοις ὅτι τῇδε κείμεθα τοῖς κείνων ῥήμασι πειθόμενοι.
	the Cenotaph of Thermopylae


They know enough who know how to learn.
	Henry Brooks Adams


switching elements are modeled by quantum mechanics described by differential equations whose behavior is captured by numerical approximations represented in computer programs executing on computers composed of switching elements
	Gerald Sussman


"Computer Science" is not a science, and it's significance has little to do with computers.
	Marvin Minsky


I think computer science, by and large, is still stuck in the Modern Age.
	Larry Wall


Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute.
	H.Abelson & G.Sussman


A common mistake people make when trying to design something completely foolproof is to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools.
	D.Adams


Don't worry about people stealing your ideas. If your ideas are any good, you'll have to ram them down people's throats.
	H. Aiken


Good teaching is more a giving of the right questions than a giving of the right answers.
	J. Albers


The absence of floods is drought, the impossibility of weeds is famine.
	The Monk, Diablo 3


Scientists, like many others, are touched with awe at the order and complexity of nature.  Indeed, many scientists are deeply religious.  But science and religion occupy two separate realms of human experience.  Demanding that they be combined detracts from the glory of each.
	Bruce Alberts


The most exciting phrase to hear in science - the one that heralds new discoveries - is not "Eureka!" but "That's funny...".
	Isaac Asimov


On two occasions, I have been asked [by members of Parliament], "Pray, Mr. Babbage, if you put into the machine wrong figures, will the right answers come out?"
I am not able to rightly apprehend the kind of confusion of ideas that could provoke such a question.
	Charles Babbage


A prudent question is one-half of wisdom.
	Francis Bacon


The sole justification of teaching, of the school itself, is that the student comes out of it able to do something he could not do before.  I say do and not know, because knowledge that doesn't lead to doing something new or doing something better is not knowledge at all.
	J. Barzun


The key to performance is elegance, not batallions of special cases.
	J. Bently & D. McIlroy


Coming together is a beginning; keeping together is progress; working together is success.
	Henry Ford


If there is any one secret of success, it lies in the ability to get the other person’s point of view and see things from that person’s angle as well as from your own.
	Henry Ford


Walking on water and developing software from a specification are easy if both are frozen.
	E. Berard


Opposites are not contradictory but complementary.
	Neils Bohr


About the only real power a CEO or Chairman has is giving motivational speeches, approving budgets, and moving names around on an org chart.
	Michael Hayden


All programmers are playwrights and all computers are lousy actors.
	Unknown


Any programming problem can be solved by adding a level of indirection. (also see "Any performance problem..." by M. Haertel).
	Unknown


Experience is a poor teacher: it gives its tests before it teaches its lessons.
	Unknown


If I had eight hours to chop down a tree, I would spend 6 hours sharpening an axe.
	Unknown


In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice, but not in practice.
	Unknown


If it doesn't fit, force it... If it breaks, it needed replacing anyway.
	Unk


Measure twice, cut once.
	Unknown


One boy is half a man, two boys is a half a boy, and three boys ain't no help at all.
	LCC


On a visit to the NASA space center, President Kennedy spoke to a man sweeping up in one of the buildings.  "What's your job here?" asked Kennedy.  "Well Mr. President," the janitor replied, "I'm helping to put a man on the moon".
	Unknown


One day a mother comes home from work and asks her son, "What did you do today?" The son replied, "I taught our dog how to play the piano."  The mother, incredulous, asked, "Our dog can play the piano?", to which the son laughed and replied, "Of course not mom.  I said that I taught him; I didn't say that he learned how."
	Unknown


The person who knows HOW will always have a job.  The person who knows WHY will always be his/her boss.
	Unknown


There are 10 different kinds of people in the world: those who know binary and those who don't.
	Unknown


Time is an excellent teacher; but eventually it kills all its students.
	Unknown


When a programming language is created that allows programmers to program in simple English, it will be discovered that programmers cannot speak English.
	Unknown


Give a man a fish and feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and feed him for a lifetime; teach him to teach others to fish - and you feed a nation.
	Unknown


He who asks is a fool for five minutes; he who does not ask remains a fool forever.
	Unknown


The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it.
	Unknown
