1.
Tote 'o 'Isous 'anyxthy eis tyn 'erymon 'ypo tou pneumatos,
Then this Jesus lead  to the wilderness under the spirit,
peirasthynai 'upo tou diabolou.
temptations under the devil.
2.
kai nysteusas 'ymeras tesserakonta kai nuktas tesserakonta 'usteron 'epeinasen.
and  fasting    days      forty    and nights    forty      later    hunger.
3.
kai proselthwn 'i peirazwn eipen   autow  Ei uios ei tou theou,
and approached the temptor speaking him   if you the Gods son 
eipe 'ina oi lithoi outoi 'artoi genwntai.
speak to the rocks those bread become
4.
'o de 'apokritheis eipen Gegraptai Oik 'ep 'artw monw zysetai
this then answer  saying Written   No upon bread alone living
'o 'anthrwpos, 'all 'epi panti 'rymati 'ekporeuomenw dia stomatos theou.
the   men,      but upon every writing  departing  across mouth   God.
5.
Tote paralambanei auton 'o diabolos eis tyn 'agian polin,
Then  took         him  the devil  to  the  holy  city,
kai 'estysen auton 'epi to pterugion tou ieou,
and   stand  him    on the pinnacle  the sacred,
6.
kai legei autw  Ei uios ei tou theou, bale seauton katw-  gegraptai gar 'oti 
and said  him   If son  of the  god, throw yourself down-  written  for  it
Tois 'aggelois autou 'enteleitai peri sou kai 'epi xeirwn 'arousin se, 
The   angels   yours   command  about you and upon hand    carry  you
mypote proskopsys pros lithon ton poda  s.
 lest    strike   with stone  the foot yours.
7.
'ephy autw 'o 'Iysous Palin gegraptai Ouk 'ekpeiraseis kurion ton theon sou.
 said him the  Jesus  again  written don't   tempt      lord  the  god yours.
8.
Palin paralambenei auton 'o diabolos eis 'oros 'upsylon lian,
Again    took       him the  devil   to mountain high  greatly,
kai deiknysin autw pasas tas basileias tou kosmou kai tyn dozan autwn
and explained  him  all  the kingdoms  the cosmos and the glory them
9.
kai eipen autw Tauta soi panta dwsw, 'ean peswn proskunysys moi.
and spoke him  This  you  all  give,  if collapse prostrate me.
10.
makarioi oi dediwgmenoi 'eneken dikaiosunys,   'oti autwn 'estin 'y basileia twn ouranwn.
blessed the  pursuers   because righteousness, that  he     be   a  kingdom  the heaven.
11.
makarioi 'este 'otan 'oneidiswsin 'ymas kai diwzwsin kai eipwsin pan ponyron
blessed   then  when   reviled     you  and  pursued and spoken  all  evil
  kath' 'ymwn pseudomenoi 'eneken 'emou.
according you   lying     because  us.
12.
xairete kai 'agalliasthe, 'oti 'o misthos 'ymwn polus 'en tois ouranois
rejoice and  celebrate,   that the wage  yours  great in  this heaven
outws gar 'ediwzan tous prophytas tous pro 'umwn.
 thus for  pursuing the prophets thus before you.
13.
kai katalipwn tyn Nazara 'elthwn katwkysen eis Kapharnaoum tyn parathalassian
and leaving the Nazareth   came   dwelling in   Capernaum  the   seaside
'en 'oriois Zaboulwn kai Nephthalim.
 in  region  Zebulun  and Naphthali.
14.
'ina plyrwthy to 'rythen dia 'Hsaiou tou prophytou legontos
then fullfil the  speech through Isaiah the prophet's words
15.
Gy Zaoulwn kai gy Nephthalim, 'odon thalassys, peran tou 'Iordanou,
Earth Zalmon and earth Naphthali, road sea, opposite the Jordan,
Galilaia twn 'ethnwn,
Galilee the nations,
16.
'o  laos    'o kathymenos en skotia phws eiden mega,
the people there residing in dark light seeing great,
kai tois kathymenois 'en xwra kai skia thanatou phws 'aneteilen autois.
and those residing  in country and shadow death light  dawning  them.
17.
'Apo tote 'yrzato 'o 'Iysous kyrussein kai legein
away then  first  who  Jesus  preached and worded
Metanoeite, 'yggiken gar y basileia twn ouranwn.
  Repent,  coming  for  the kingdom the heaven.
18.
Periptwn de para tyn thalassan tys Galilaias eiden duo 'adelphous,
Walking then beside the sea of Galilee seeing two brothers,
Simwna ton legomenon Petron kai 'Andrean ton adelphon autou,
Simon  who   spoke   Peter  and  Andrew  the  son      him,
ballontas 'amphiblystron eis tyn thalassan, ysan tar alieis
throwing       nets       in the   sea, being for fishers