1.
Tou de 'Iysou gennythentos 'en Bythleem tys 'Ioudaias 'en 'ymerais 'Hrwdou tou basilews,
of then jesus   genesis     in Bethlehem the Judean in days of Herod the king, 
idou magoi 'apo 'anatolwn paregenonto eis 'Ierosolyma
look magi  from    east    presented  in  Jerusalem
2.
legontes Pou 'estin 'o textheis basileus twn 'Ioudaiwn;
 spoke  where   is  the birth    king    the  Jewish;
eidomen gar autou ton 'astera 'en ty 'anatoly kai 'ylthomen proskunysai autw.
 watch  for  him  the  stars  in the   east   and   come     worship    him.
3.
akousas de 'o basileus 'Hrwdys 'etaraxthy kai pasa 'Ierosolyma met' autou,
sound  of the   king   Herod     troubled and  all   Jerusalem with him,
4.
kai synagagwn pantas tous 'arxiereis kai grammateis tou laou
and synagogues all    the  arch-priest and writer   the people
'epynthaneto par' autwn pou 'o xristos gennatai.
  inquiry   into him   where the chirst genesized.
5.
oi de eipan autw 'En Bythleem tys 'Ioudaias outws gar gegraptai dia tou prophytou
and of said  him in Bethlehem the   Judean   he because written across the prophets
6.
Kai su,   Bythleem  gy 'Iouda,   oudamws   'elaxisty ei en tois 'ygemosin 'Iouda
and you, Bethelehem of  Judah, by-no-means  trivial  to be the   hegemony  Judah 
 ek  sou gar ezeleusetai 'ygoumenos, 'ostis poimanei ton laon mou ton 'Israyl.
from you for   leaving    governor,  which  worked the people mine the Israel.
7.
Tote 'Hrwdys lathra kalesas tous magous 'ykribwsen par' autwn ton xronon tou phainomenou 'asteros,
Then  Herod  quietly called the  magus  inquiring with them  the time the phenomenon astral,
8.
kai pempsas autous eis Bythleem eipen Poreuthentes 'ezetasate 'akribws peri tou paidiou 'epan de euryte
and dispatched them to Bethlehem saying   depart      search    exactly where the child soon then met.
'apaggeilate moi, 'opws kagw 'elthwn proskynysw autw.
   message   me,   that  I    come    worship   him.
9.
 oi   de  'akousantes tou basilews 'eporeuthysan,
this then   resounded the  king     traveling,
kai idou 'o astyr 'on eidon 'en ty 'anatoly proygen autous, 'ews 'elthwn 'estathy 'epanw ou yn to paidion.
and look the star  to watch  in the  east   leading  them,  thus   come   standing above whither is the child.
10.
idontes do ton 'astera 'exarysan xaran megalyn sphodra
realized that the star  rejoiced  joy   great exceeding
11.
kai 'elthontes eis tyn oikian eidon to paidion meta Marias tyc mytros autou,
and   going toward the home  seeing the child   of   Mary  the mother him,
kai pesontes prosekunysan autw, kai 'anoizantes tous thysaurous autwn prosynegkan autw dwra,
and falling   worshipping him,  and    opening  the   stores    theirs offering    him gifts,
xryson kai libanon kai smyrnan.
 gold  and incense and myrrh.
12.
kai xrymatisthentes  kat' 'onar my 'anakampsai pros 'Hrwdyn di' 'allys 
and    announced    with dream  not   return    to   Herod  through another
'odou 'anexwrysan eis tyn  xwran  autwn.
 road   withdraw   to the country theirs.
13.
'Anaxwrysantwn de autwn idou aggelos kuriou  phainetai kat' 'onar tw 'Iwsyph
 Withdrawing  then they look  angel   lord    shining  with dream to  Joseph
legwn 'Egertheis paralabe to paidion kai tyn mytera autou kai pheuge eis Aigypton,
saying   arise     take  the  child  and the mother  his  and  flee  to  Egypt,
kai 'isthi ekei 'ews  'an  eipw  soi mellei gar 'Hrwdys zytein to paidion tou 'apolesai auto.
and   be   there until it spoken you ensure for  Herod  seeks the  child  to   destroy   him.
14.
'o  de 'Iwannys diekwlyen auton legwn 'Egw xreian 'exw  'ypo  sou baptisthynai,
who of  Jonas   teaching   his  words  I    need  have  under you  baptize,
kai  su 'erxy  pros  me;  
and you  come toward me;
15.
'apokritheis  de  'o  'Iysous eipen  pros  auton
  answer      of  the   Jesus speak toward  you
'Aphes 'arti, outws gar prepon 'estin 'ymin  plyrwsai pasan dikaiosuynyn.
Permit  now,   you  for proper  being  your fulfilled  all  righteousness. 
tote 'aphiysin auton.
then  forgave   he.