1.
'En  de  tais 'ymerais 'ekeinais paraginetai 'Iwannys 'o baptistys
 in then the    days     those    presented   Jonas  the baptizer
kyrusswn 'en ty 'erymw tys 'Ioudaias
preaching in the desert of   Judah
2.
kai legwn  metanoeite,  'yggiken  gar  y basileia twn ouranwn.
and saying higher-think, approach for the kingdom the heaven.
           repent 
3.
outos  gar  'estin  'o  'rytheis  di  'Hsaiou  tou  prophytou  legontos
them   for    is    the  speech    of   Isaiah  the  prophet    saying
phwny  bowntos  'en  ty  'erymw  'Etoimasate  tyn  'odon  kuriou,
sound  crying   in  the   desert   prepare    the   road of lord
 eutheias   poieite tas tribous autou.
straighten practice the  path   his.
4.
autos  de  'o 'Iwannys  eixen  to  'endyma autou 'apo trixwn 
their then is   John   having the clothing  his  from  hair
kamylou kai  zwnyn dermatinyn  peri  tyn 'osphyn autou,
camel's and  belt     skin    around the  loins   his
'y   de  trophy yn autou  akrides kai  meli 'agrion.
and then  food  of  his  locusts  and honey  wild.
5.
tote 'ezepreyeto pros auton 'Ierosolyma kai pasa 'y 'Ioudaia 
then   departed toward him   Jerusalem and  all  of  Judea
kai pasa 'y perixwros tou 'Iordanou,
and all  of  region   the Jordan,
6.
kai 'ebaptizonto 'en tw 'Iordyn potamw 'up autou 'ezomologoumenoi tas 'amartias autwn
and    baptized them the Jordan river under him     confessing    the   sins   theirs
7.
'Idwn de pollous twn Pharisaiwn kai Saddoukaiwn 'erxomenous 'epi to baptisma
 See then much  the Pharisees  and   Sudducees    going    to  the baptism
autou eipen autois Leggymata 'exidnwn, tis 'ypedeizen 'umin phygein 'ypo tys mellousys 'orgys;
 his  speech their offspring  snakes, which  showed    you   flee   away the  ensuing   wrath;
8.
poiysate oun karpon 'azion tys metanoias 
  work  then fruit  worthy the higher-mind
9.
kai my    dozyte   legein 'en 'eautois  Patera 'exomen ton 'Abraam,
and not considering words  in themselves Father having this Abraham,
legw gar 'umin 'oti dunatai 'o theos  'ek twn lithwn toutwn 'egeirai tekna tw 'Abraam.
word for  you  since power  of  god  from the stone   they   arose  children of Abraham.
10.
  'ydy   de   'y 'aziny pros tyn 'rizan twn dendrwn keitai
already then the  axe    to  the  root the   tree appointed
pan oun dendron my poioun  kapron kalon 'ekkoptetai kai   eis  pur balletai.
all then tree not practiced fruit good    cut-off   and toward fire cast.
11.
'Egw   men    'ymas baptizw 'en 'udati eis   metanoian 'o   de 'opisw mou 'erxomenos 
 I <otherwise> you  baptize  in water toward high-mind who then after me   coming
isxyroteros mou 'estin, ou ouk eimi ikanos ta 'upodymata bastasai
  strong  us   to-be, which no to-be sufficient to sandal carry
autos 'umas baptisei 'en pneumati 'agiw kai puri.
 he    you  baptize  en  spirit  holy  and fire.
12.
 ou   to    ptyon   'en ty xeiri autou, kai diakathariei tyn
which the pitchfork in the hand  his,   and  cleansing   the
     'alwna     autou kai synazei ton oiton autou eis tyn
threshing-floor his and assembling the grain his to the 
'apothykyn, to de 'axyron katakaysei pyri 'asbestw.
storehouse, the when chaff burned  fire unquenchable.
13.
Tote paraginetai 'o 'Iysous 'apo tys Galilaias 'epi ton 'Iordanyn 
the   arrived    to  Jesus  from the  Galilee  upon the  Jordan
pros ton 'Iwannyn tou baptisthynai 'yp autou.
with the  John   the  baptizer under him.
14.
'o de 'Iwannys diekwlyen auton legwn Egw xreian 'exw 'ypo
who when John   hindered  his  words mine need  have under
sou baptisthynai, kai su 'rxy pros me;
your baptism,    and you come with me;
15.
'apokritheis de 'o 'iysous eipen pros auton 'Aphes 'arti,
   answer    of the Jesus  speak with  him  Permit  now,
outws gar prepon 'estin 'ymin plyrwsai pasan dikaiosunyn.
 you  for proper  to-be  we   fulfill  all   righteousness.
tote 'aphinsin auton.
then   permit   me.
16.
baptistheis de 'i 'Iysous  eythus 'aneby  'apo tou 'udatos kai idou
 baptized  then the Jesus straight ascend under the  water and look!
'ynewxthysan oi ouranoi, kai eiden pneuma theou katabainon 'wsei peristeran
  opened    the heaven,  and  see  spirit  god   descend    like   dove
'erxomenon 'ep auton
  coming  upon him
17.
kai idou  thwny 'ek twn ouranwn legousa
and look! voice from the heaven spoke
Outos 'estin 'o uois mou 'o 'agapytos, 'en w eudokysa.
 He    to-be the son mine my beloved, in which delight.